Grammar.md, before:

# Alias Specification Grammar

_Copyright (c) 2019 Fred Morris, Tacoma WA. Apache 2.0 license._

The configuration file contains configuration parameters and alias specifications.

```
<statement> := <alias-spec> | <config-statement>
```

## Configuration statements

Configuration statements fit on a single line and are terminated by a newline. The following configuration items are available:

* `CASE SENSITIVE` (boolean) Whether stuff should be converted to lowercase before computation or not.
* `HOST` (IP address) The address in turn determines the network interface which will be bound.
* `PORT` (TCP port) The port the service should listen on.
* `LOGGING` (enum) One of `debug`, `info`, `warning`, `error`, `critical` in order of increasing severity.
* `DEBUG ACCOUNT` (identifier) Name of a locally deliverable account to receive mail for addresses which cannot be disambiguated.

```
<config-statement> := <conf-item> : <conf-value> <newline>
<conf-item> := CASE SENSITIVE | HOST | PORT | LOGGING | DEBUG ACCOUNT
<conf-value> := <boolean> | <address> | <integer> | <log-level> | <identifier>
```

## Alias specifications

Alias statements declare accounts, optional alias mappings, and then a way of calculating a checksum for the alias.

```
<alias-spec> := ACCOUNT <account>[,...]
                { USING <identifier-type> }
                { ALIASED *|<alias>[,...] }
                MATCHES <match-expr>
                WITH <calc-expr>;
```

`account` must exist for local delivery. (Wildcarded accounts: supporting wildcarded accounts was deemed infeasible
because there was no portable way to determine accounts or in other words to call `proxy:unix:passwd.byname` from the service.)
Multiple accounts MAY be declared; if multiple accounts are specified then `ALIASED` MUST be omitted or wildcarded. A
given account may occur in only one statement.

The account is available for matching within the match expression as `%account%`.

The `USING` clause is optional and forces use of a particular identifier pattern (see below). By default
`ident` is used.

The `ALIASED` clause is optional; `ALIASED *` is equivalent to omitting the clause. When wildcarded, the alias
is identical to the account. If a single account is declared, multiple aliases MAY be specified. If multiple
accounts are declared, then the `ALIASED` clause MUST be omitted or wildcarded. A given alias may occur in only one
statement.

The alias is available for matching within the match expression as `%alias%`.

### match-expr

Match expressions consist of literals interspersed with match values.

```
<match-expr> := [<match-val>|<literal>][...]
```

`literal` is simply a literal character. `match-val` is inside "%" characters and there are three kinds: account/alias,
identifier, and code.

```
<match-val> := %[<acct-alias>|<identifier>|code]%
```

`acct-alias` is either `account` or `alias`, is declared in either the `ACCOUNT` or `ALIASES` clauses, and
matches a locally deliverable email destination.

`code` is the literal string "code", and matchs the result of the calculation expression.

`identifier` is one of the identifier matching classes:

* `alnum`: matches letters and numerals
* `alpha`: matches letters only
* `number`: matches numerals only
* `fqdn`: matches a domain name, or in other words runs of letters, numerals and dashes separated by dots.
* `ident`: matches the common identifier pattern, which is to say letters, numerals, "-" and "_".

Only `alpha` and `number` may occur immediately adjacent to each other, and neither of them may be immediately
adjacent to themselves.

**Ambiguous Expressions:**

Ambiguity can occur in both _context_ and _pattern_. That `%alnum%%alnum%` for instance is not allow in a match
expression is because it is ambiguous except (possibly) in the case where there are precisely two characters to match:
this is an ambiguous _pattern_ which is detected statically and rejected by the configuration parser.

Some ambiguous _patterns_ are allowed because their abuse may be deemed low risk, and may be raised dynamically in
response to adversarial or accidental input. As an example, `%alpha%x%alpha%` is relatively benign with input like
"fooxbar", but becomes ambiguous when confronted with "xxxxxxx"; if all match expressions where this happens belong
to the same account then the mail will be delivered to that account, otherwise it will be delivered to the `DEBUG_ACCOUNT`.

_Context_ ambiguities arise where there is insufficient information to resolve the account to deliver to in one or
more match expressions. If the match expression `match-this` (a string of nothing but literals) was used
with multiple accounts, then it would be ambiguous and is flagged by
the parser. It is possible that multiple match expressions could match the same input; if all of the match expressions
map to the same account then the mail will be delivered to that account, otherwise it will be delivered to the
`DEBUG_ACCOUNT`.

The following table summarizes whether or not the `account` or `alias` or a unique match expression
is required:

| Relationship | account | alias | unique expr |
| ------------ | ------- | ----- | ----------- |
| account only | either | n/a | either |
| unique account and alias | either | either | either |
| one account many aliases | optional | required | n/a |
| many accounts one alias | required | required | n/a |

### calc-expr

A calc expression is a comma separated list of function calls and literals (not white space). The function results
and literals are concatenated in sequence to form the value available inside the match expression as `%code%`.

The following functions are available:

* `DIGITS({n})` Count of digits.
* `ALPHAS({n})` Count of alphabetic characters.
* `LABELS({n})` Count of labels in an domain name.
* `CHARS({n})` Count of characters.
* `VOWELS({n})` Count of vowels.
* `ANY({n})` Any character in an identifier (turns it into a character set).
* `NONE({n})` Any character not in an identifier -- still has to be valid for the identifier.
* `CHAR({n},{label},index,default)` The character at a certain position in an identifier.

NOTE: `NONE()` has to be valid for the type of identifier. For example if the type is `number` then the character
needs to be a _digit_ which is not in the identifier.

**One-Based indexing:** Indexing of identifiers, labels and characters is _one-based_ meaning that the first element
is element 1. Coding types (like me) oftentimes expect to see _zero-based_ indexing, where the first element is element 0.

`CHAR()` also allows negative indexing just for the character offset, which is also one-based (which will confuse coding
types even more because that's the way they expect it to work).

**Account and alias indexing:**

Indexing of identifiers also supports the two special values `account` and `alias` in addition to an integer value. These reference the account and alias respectively. _These operate even if the account and/or alias are not present in the match expression._

**Multiple identifiers:** It is possible to perform more than one identifier match in a match expression. For instance
the following two expressions are (almost) identical:

```
"%account%-%fqdn%-%code%"
"%account%-%ident%.%ident%-%code%"
```

(The difference is that the second one allows "_" in the labels.) For the purposes of the rest of this discussion,
assume that the address being tested is `joe-macys.com-mc2`. In the case where multiple identifier matches were performed,
the first optional parameter `n` specifies the particular match. In the case of an `%fqdn%` match, the second parameter
to `CHAR()` specifies the particular label to match.

| fqdn | ident |
| ---- | ----- |
| `CHARS()` | Can't be done, as in the fqdn case it returns the length of the entire FQDN ("9"). |
| Can't be done, as in the ident case it returns the length of the second label ("3"). | `CHARS(2)` |
| `LABELS()` | Can't be done, only applies to `%fqdn%`. |
| `CHAR(2,1,-)` | `CHAR(2,1,-)` |

That last example is a little tricky, but it does the right thing. In the `%fqdn%` case there is only one identifier,
so the first parameter isn't needed but the label needs to be specified. In the `%ident%` case there are two identifiers,
so the first parameter is required but there aren't labels so the second parameter isn't needed.

Theoretically if you had multiple `%fqdn%` identifiers then you'd need all four parameters.

## Some examples

#### An account with a checksummed identifier

Matches `foo-google-g6`, `foo-macys-m5`.

This is the most basic example. Accounts cannot contain "-".

```
ACCOUNT foo
MATCHES "%account%-%ident%-%code%"
WITH CHAR(1,-), CHARS();
```

Note that this is semantically identical to 

```
ACCOUNT foo
ALIASED *
MATCHES "%account%-%ident%-%code%"
WITH CHAR(1,-), CHARS();
```

#### Several accounts with the same policy

Matches `foo-google-g6` and `baz-google-g6`, delivering to local accounts `foo` and `baz` respectively.

```
ACCOUNT foo, bar, baz
MATCHES "%account%-%ident%-%code%"
WITH CHAR(1,-), CHARS();
```

#### An account with a couple of aliases and a checksummed identifier

Matches `joe-google-g6` and `paul-macys-m5` and delivers them to the local account `foo`.

```
ACCOUNT foo
ALIASED joe, paul
MATCHES "%alias%-%ident%-%code%"
WITH CHAR(1,-), CHARS();
```

#### An account with a checksummed domain name

Matches `foo-google.com-gm10` and `foo-register.co.uk-ro14`.

```
ACCOUNT foo
MATCHES "%account%-%fqdn%-%code%"
WITH CHAR(1,1,-), CHAR(2,-1,-), CHARS();
```

#### An account with a checksummed domain name and a different calculation

Matches `foo-google.com-gm6` and `foo-register.co-ro8`.

This does NOT match `foo-register.co.uk-ro8` (too many labels,
we explicitly specified two identifiers separated by one dot).

```
ACCOUNT foo
MATCHES "%account%-%ident%.%ident%-%code%"
WITH CHAR(1,1,-), CHAR(2,-1,-), CHARS(1);
```

#### An account with a year along with the account name

Matches `foo-experian-19-e82` and `foo-nytimes-2019-n74`, although it doesn't perform much actual
validation of the year.

```
ACCOUNT foo
MATCHES "%account%-%alnum%-%number%-%code%"
WITH CHAR(1,1,-), CHARS(1), CHARS(2);
```

This also matches, although it's overly clever and relies on the coincidence that there were no digits
in the company names.

```
ACCOUNT foo
MATCHES "%account%-%ident%-%code%"
WITH CHAR(1,-), ALPHAS(), DIGITS();
```

If you truly want to validate years (treat them as an enumeration) you can declare them as aliases. Matches
`foo-experian-19-e8` and `foo-nytimes-2019-n7`.

```
ACCOUNT foo
ALIASED 18, 2018, 19, 2019
MATCHES "%account%-%ident%-%alias%-%code%"
WITH CHAR(1,-), CHARS();
```

## Other issues

#### Addresses which cannot be disambiguated

We presume that we are operating in a hostile environment. While we may never generate aliases which cannot be
disambiguated (we might even work to avoid it), adversaries are operating with no such constraints.

The server can reject lookups which are unambiguously _not_ known aliases along with invalid aliases. However we presume that some combinations of match expressions and aliases in the wild will not be disambiguated and hence cannot be validated / delivered. This may or may not be due to defects in the address parsing. Experience in the field is needed to gauge actual frequecy and impact.

`DEBUG ACCOUNT` can be used to specify an account for local delivery of mail addressed to addresses which cannot be disambiguated.

Commit message:

An example of account matching grammar.

Grammar.md, after:

# Alias Specification Grammar

_Copyright (c) 2019-2020 Fred Morris, Tacoma WA. Apache 2.0 license._

The configuration file contains configuration parameters and alias specifications.

```
<statement> := <alias-spec> | <config-statement>
```

## Configuration statements

Configuration statements fit on a single line and are terminated by a newline. The following configuration items are available:

* `CASE SENSITIVE` (boolean) Whether stuff should be converted to lowercase before computation or not.
* `HOST` (IP address) The address in turn determines the network interface which will be bound.
* `PORT` (TCP port) The port the service should listen on.
* `LOGGING` (enum) One of `debug`, `info`, `warning`, `error`, `critical` in order of increasing severity.
* `DEBUG ACCOUNT` (identifier) Name of a locally deliverable account to receive mail for addresses which cannot be disambiguated.

```
<config-statement> := <conf-item> : <conf-value> <newline>
<conf-item> := CASE SENSITIVE | HOST | PORT | LOGGING | DEBUG ACCOUNT
<conf-value> := <boolean> | <address> | <integer> | <log-level> | <identifier>
```

## Alias specifications

Alias statements declare accounts, optional alias mappings, and then a way of calculating a checksum for the alias.

```
<alias-spec> := ACCOUNT <account>[,...]
                { USING <identifier-type> }
                { ALIASED *|<alias>[,...] }
                MATCHES <match-expr>
                WITH <calc-expr>;
```

`account` must exist for local delivery. (Wildcarded accounts: supporting wildcarded accounts was deemed infeasible
because there was no portable way to determine accounts or in other words to call `proxy:unix:passwd.byname` from the service.)
Multiple accounts MAY be declared; if multiple accounts are specified then `ALIASED` MUST be omitted or wildcarded. A
given account may occur in only one statement.

The account is available for matching within the match expression as `%account%`.

The `USING` clause is optional and forces use of a particular identifier pattern (see below). By default
`ident` is used.

The `ALIASED` clause is optional; `ALIASED *` is equivalent to omitting the clause. When wildcarded, the alias
is identical to the account. If a single account is declared, multiple aliases MAY be specified. If multiple
accounts are declared, then the `ALIASED` clause MUST be omitted or wildcarded. A given alias may occur in only one
statement.

The alias is available for matching within the match expression as `%alias%`.

### match-expr

Match expressions consist of literals interspersed with match values.

```
<match-expr> := [<match-val>|<literal>][...]
```

`literal` is simply a literal character. `match-val` is inside "%" characters and there are three kinds: account/alias,
identifier, and code.

```
<match-val> := %[<acct-alias>|<identifier>|code]%
```

`acct-alias` is either `account` or `alias`, is declared in either the `ACCOUNT` or `ALIASES` clauses, and
matches a locally deliverable email destination.

`code` is the literal string "code", and matchs the result of the calculation expression.

`identifier` is one of the identifier matching classes:

* `alnum`: matches letters and numerals
* `alpha`: matches letters only
* `number`: matches numerals only
* `fqdn`: matches a domain name, or in other words runs of letters, numerals and dashes separated by dots.
* `ident`: matches the common identifier pattern, which is to say letters, numerals, "-" and "_".

Only `alpha` and `number` may occur immediately adjacent to each other, and neither of them may be immediately
adjacent to themselves.

**Ambiguous Expressions:**

Ambiguity can occur in both _context_ and _pattern_. That `%alnum%%alnum%` for instance is not allow in a match
expression is because it is ambiguous except (possibly) in the case where there are precisely two characters to match:
this is an ambiguous _pattern_ which is detected statically and rejected by the configuration parser.

Some ambiguous _patterns_ are allowed because their abuse may be deemed low risk, and may be raised dynamically in
response to adversarial or accidental input. As an example, `%alpha%x%alpha%` is relatively benign with input like
"fooxbar", but becomes ambiguous when confronted with "xxxxxxx"; if all match expressions where this happens belong
to the same account then the mail will be delivered to that account, otherwise it will be delivered to the `DEBUG_ACCOUNT`.

_Context_ ambiguities arise where there is insufficient information to resolve the account to deliver to in one or
more match expressions. If the match expression `match-this` (a string of nothing but literals) was used
with multiple accounts, then it would be ambiguous and is flagged by
the parser. It is possible that multiple match expressions could match the same input; if all of the match expressions
map to the same account then the mail will be delivered to that account, otherwise it will be delivered to the
`DEBUG_ACCOUNT`.

The following table summarizes whether or not the `account` or `alias` or a unique match expression
is required:

| Relationship | account | alias | unique expr |
| ------------ | ------- | ----- | ----------- |
| account only | either | n/a | either |
| unique account and alias | either | either | either |
| one account many aliases | optional | required | n/a |
| many accounts one alias | required | required | n/a |

### calc-expr

A calc expression is a comma separated list of function calls and literals (not white space). The function results
and literals are concatenated in sequence to form the value available inside the match expression as `%code%`.

The following functions are available:

* `DIGITS({n})` Count of digits.
* `ALPHAS({n})` Count of alphabetic characters.
* `LABELS({n})` Count of labels in an domain name.
* `CHARS({n})` Count of characters.
* `VOWELS({n})` Count of vowels.
* `ANY({n})` Any character in an identifier (turns it into a character set).
* `NONE({n})` Any character not in an identifier -- still has to be valid for the identifier.
* `CHAR({n},{label},index,default)` The character at a certain position in an identifier.

NOTE: `NONE()` has to be valid for the type of identifier. For example if the type is `number` then the character
needs to be a _digit_ which is not in the identifier.

**One-Based indexing:** Indexing of identifiers, labels and characters is _one-based_ meaning that the first element
is element 1. Coding types (like me) oftentimes expect to see _zero-based_ indexing, where the first element is element 0.

`CHAR()` also allows negative indexing just for the character offset, which is also one-based (which will confuse coding
types even more because that's the way they expect it to work).

**Account and alias indexing:**

Indexing of identifiers also supports the two special values `account` and `alias` in addition to an integer value. These reference the account and alias respectively. _These operate even if the account and/or alias are not present in the match expression._

Accounts and aliases do not count in the number of identifiers. For example the following has one identifier for matching purposes (as well as the account):

```
ACCOUNT amelia
MATCHES %account%wants%alpha%.%code%
WITH CHARS(account), NONE(account), CHARS(1);
```

An example match:

```
# /usr/sbin/postmap -q "ameliawantschips.6k5" tcp:athena.m3047.net:3047
amelia
```

**Multiple identifiers:** It is possible to perform more than one identifier match in a match expression. For instance
the following two expressions are (almost) identical:

```
"%account%-%fqdn%-%code%"
"%account%-%ident%.%ident%-%code%"
```

(The difference is that the second one allows "_" in the labels.) For the purposes of the rest of this discussion,
assume that the address being tested is `joe-macys.com-mc2`. In the case where multiple identifier matches were performed,
the first optional parameter `n` specifies the particular match. In the case of an `%fqdn%` match, the second parameter
to `CHAR()` specifies the particular label to match.

| fqdn | ident |
| ---- | ----- |
| `CHARS()` | Can't be done, as in the fqdn case it returns the length of the entire FQDN ("9"). |
| Can't be done, as in the ident case it returns the length of the second label ("3"). | `CHARS(2)` |
| `LABELS()` | Can't be done, only applies to `%fqdn%`. |
| `CHAR(2,1,-)` | `CHAR(2,1,-)` |

That last example is a little tricky, but it does the right thing. In the `%fqdn%` case there is only one identifier,
so the first parameter isn't needed but the label needs to be specified. In the `%ident%` case there are two identifiers,
so the first parameter is required but there aren't labels so the second parameter isn't needed.

Theoretically if you had multiple `%fqdn%` identifiers then you'd need all four parameters.

## Some examples

#### An account with a checksummed identifier

Matches `foo-google-g6`, `foo-macys-m5`.

This is the most basic example. Accounts cannot contain "-".

```
ACCOUNT foo
MATCHES "%account%-%ident%-%code%"
WITH CHAR(1,-), CHARS();
```

Note that this is semantically identical to 

```
ACCOUNT foo
ALIASED *
MATCHES "%account%-%ident%-%code%"
WITH CHAR(1,-), CHARS();
```

#### Several accounts with the same policy

Matches `foo-google-g6` and `baz-google-g6`, delivering to local accounts `foo` and `baz` respectively.

```
ACCOUNT foo, bar, baz
MATCHES "%account%-%ident%-%code%"
WITH CHAR(1,-), CHARS();
```

#### An account with a couple of aliases and a checksummed identifier

Matches `joe-google-g6` and `paul-macys-m5` and delivers them to the local account `foo`.

```
ACCOUNT foo
ALIASED joe, paul
MATCHES "%alias%-%ident%-%code%"
WITH CHAR(1,-), CHARS();
```

#### An account with a checksummed domain name

Matches `foo-google.com-gm10` and `foo-register.co.uk-ro14`.

```
ACCOUNT foo
MATCHES "%account%-%fqdn%-%code%"
WITH CHAR(1,1,-), CHAR(2,-1,-), CHARS();
```

#### An account with a checksummed domain name and a different calculation

Matches `foo-google.com-gm6` and `foo-register.co-ro8`.

This does NOT match `foo-register.co.uk-ro8` (too many labels,
we explicitly specified two identifiers separated by one dot).

```
ACCOUNT foo
MATCHES "%account%-%ident%.%ident%-%code%"
WITH CHAR(1,1,-), CHAR(2,-1,-), CHARS(1);
```

#### An account with a year along with the account name

Matches `foo-experian-19-e82` and `foo-nytimes-2019-n74`, although it doesn't perform much actual
validation of the year.

```
ACCOUNT foo
MATCHES "%account%-%alnum%-%number%-%code%"
WITH CHAR(1,1,-), CHARS(1), CHARS(2);
```

This also matches, although it's overly clever and relies on the coincidence that there were no digits
in the company names.

```
ACCOUNT foo
MATCHES "%account%-%ident%-%code%"
WITH CHAR(1,-), ALPHAS(), DIGITS();
```

If you truly want to validate years (treat them as an enumeration) you can declare them as aliases. Matches
`foo-experian-19-e8` and `foo-nytimes-2019-n7`.

```
ACCOUNT foo
ALIASED 18, 2018, 19, 2019
MATCHES "%account%-%ident%-%alias%-%code%"
WITH CHAR(1,-), CHARS();
```

## Other issues

#### Addresses which cannot be disambiguated

We presume that we are operating in a hostile environment. While we may never generate aliases which cannot be
disambiguated (we might even work to avoid it), adversaries are operating with no such constraints.

The server can reject lookups which are unambiguously _not_ known aliases along with invalid aliases. However we presume that some combinations of match expressions and aliases in the wild will not be disambiguated and hence cannot be validated / delivered. This may or may not be due to defects in the address parsing. Experience in the field is needed to gauge actual frequecy and impact.

`DEBUG ACCOUNT` can be used to specify an account for local delivery of mail addressed to addresses which cannot be disambiguated.
