python/README.md, before:

# Copy `trualias.conf` and it should run.

Copy `tcp_table_server.conf.sample` to `tcp_table_server.conf` and you should be able to run `tcp_table_server.py`.

It will listen on `127.0.0.1:3047` by default, and you should be able to query it with [`postmap`](http://www.postfix.org/postmap.1.html):

```
# postmap -q "samissexy.34" tcp:127.0.0.1:3047
baz
```

It watches the configuration file and will reload it if it changes.

To actually call it from `main.cf` you will have to recompile `local(8)`. See the instructions in `../install/`.

### Hacking 101

This is a [plaintext protocol](http://www.postfix.org/tcp_table.5.html). Got `telnet`?

```
# telnet 127.0.0.1 3047
Trying 127.0.0.1...
Connected to 127.0.0.1.
Escape character is '^]'.
get greyisthenewbeige.411
200 baz
^]
telnet> quit
Connection closed.
```

### Statistics!

The TCP Map server supports statistics! These can be logged periodically as well as queried for.

Briefly:

* _e_ elapsed seconds
* _d_ queue depth
* _n_ number per second
* _min_ minimum per second
* _max_ maximum per second
* _1_ most recent one second
* _10_ most recent 10 seconds average
* _60_ most recent 60 seconds average

```
# telnet athena.m3047.net 3047
Trying 209.221.140.128...
Connected to athena.m3047.net.
Escape character is '^]'.
foo
400 unrecognized command
get foo
500 not found
get samissexy.34
200 baz
stats
210 bad: emin=0.0000 emax=0.0000 e1=0.0000 e10=0.0000 e60=0.0000 nmin=0 nmax=1 n1=0.0000 n10=0.0000 n60=0.0167
212 connections: emin=0.0000 emax=0.0627 e1=0.0000 e10=0.0000 e60=0.0010 dmin=0 dmax=1 d1=1.0000 d10=1.0000 d60=0.2167 nmin=0 nmax=1 n1=0.0000 n10=0.0000 n60=0.0333
212 not_found: emin=0.0000 emax=0.0001 e1=0.0000 e10=0.0000 e60=0.0000 nmin=0 nmax=1 n1=0.0000 n10=0.1000 n60=0.0167
212 reads: emin=0.0000 emax=5.4090 e1=0.0000 e10=0.8751 e60=0.1834 dmin=0 dmax=1 d1=1.0000 d10=1.0000 d60=0.2167 nmin=0 nmax=2 n1=0.0000 n10=0.2000 n60=0.1000
212 stats: emin=0.0000 emax=0.0000 e1=0.0000 e10=0.0000 e60=0.0000 nmin=0 nmax=0 n1=0.0000 n10=0.0000 n60=0.0000
212 success: emin=0.0000 emax=0.0007 e1=0.0000 e10=0.0001 e60=0.0000 nmin=0 nmax=1 n1=0.0000 n10=0.1000 n60=0.0333
212 writes: emin=0.0000 emax=0.0001 e1=0.0000 e10=0.0000 e60=0.0000 dmin=0 dmax=0 d1=0.0000 d10=0.0000 d60=0.0000 nmin=0 nmax=1 n1=0.0000 n10=0.2000 n60=0.0667
jstats
212 [{"name": "connections", "elapsed": {"minimum": 0.0, "maximum": 0.06274080276489258, "one": 0.0, "ten": 0.0, "sixty": 0.0010456800460815429}, "depth": {"minimum": 0, "maximum": 1, "one": 1, "ten": 1.0, "sixty": 0.8333333333333334}, "n_per_sec": {"minimum": 0, "maximum": 1, "one": 0, "ten": 0.0, "sixty": 0.03333333333333333}}, {"name": "reads", "elapsed": {"minimum": 0.0, "maximum": 5.409029722213745, "one": 0.0, "ten": 0.0, "sixty": 0.21678426861763}, "depth": {"minimum": 0, "maximum": 1, "one": 1, "ten": 1.0, "sixty": 0.8333333333333334}, "n_per_sec": {"minimum": 0, "maximum": 2, "one": 0, "ten": 0.0, "sixty": 0.11666666666666667}}, {"name": "writes", "elapsed": {"minimum": 0.0, "maximum": 9.918212890625e-05, "one": 0.0, "ten": 0.0, "sixty": 7.673104604085286e-06}, "depth": {"minimum": 0, "maximum": 0, "one": 0, "ten": 0.0, "sixty": 0.0}, "n_per_sec": {"minimum": 0, "maximum": 1, "one": 0, "ten": 0.0, "sixty": 0.08333333333333333}}, {"name": "success", "elapsed": {"minimum": 0.0, "maximum": 0.0007426738739013672, "one": 0.0, "ten": 0.0, "sixty": 2.3651123046875e-05}, "n_per_sec": {"minimum": 0, "maximum": 1, "one": 0, "ten": 0.0, "sixty": 0.03333333333333333}}, {"name": "not_found", "elapsed": {"minimum": 0.0, "maximum": 0.00010251998901367188, "one": 0.0, "ten": 0.0, "sixty": 1.708666483561198e-06}, "n_per_sec": {"minimum": 0, "maximum": 1, "one": 0, "ten": 0.0, "sixty": 0.016666666666666666}}, {"name": "bad", "elapsed": {"minimum": 0.0, "maximum": 3.910064697265625e-05, "one": 0.0, "ten": 0.0, "sixty": 6.516774495442708e-07}, "n_per_sec": {"minimum": 0, "maximum": 1, "one": 0, "ten": 0.0, "sixty": 0.016666666666666666}}, {"name": "stats", "elapsed": {"minimum": 0.0, "maximum": 0.0016276836395263672, "one": 0.0, "ten": 0.0, "sixty": 2.7128060658772786e-05}, "n_per_sec": {"minimum": 0, "maximum": 1, "one": 0, "ten": 0.0, "sixty": 0.016666666666666666}}]
```

### Differences between `alias_map` and `virtual_alias_map` in Postfix

There are a couple of differences between these.

|   | `Delivered-To:` header | query string |
| - | -------------------- | ------------ |
| **alias_map** | alias address | account ("left-hand side") |
| **virtual_alias_map** | delivery address | full email address |

As a consequence, `tcp_table_server` expects just the account and returns an account, whereas `tcp_virtual_server` expects the
whole aliased email address and returns a whole email address. The `X-Original-To:` address always contains the alias address.

## Milters on the other hand...

If you're not already running milters this is probably not a good option for you. If you don't have your head
wrapped around local delivery accounts and not being an open relay or source of incorrectly addressed blowback,
it's probably not an option for you: if you rely on _Postfix_ `local_delivery_maps` to keep you out of trouble,
this is not for you, because they won't work with a milter which has as its sole purpose the rewriting of
recipients. The milter is written to use SMTP `VRFY` for local delivery validation, which is not an ideal
solution.

### When are milters a good option?

The milter implementation is a good option if either:

* You are using a _fast forwarding milter executor_ so that recipient edits are visible during the SMTP `RCPT` stage.

-- OR --

* You have a source of deliverable account truth. If you do, you are probably plugging _Postfix_ into it right now. So you'd have to write some code to query that source of truth from the milter. Hopefully not much, we tried to make it easy... `pydoc3 ./milter_server.py` should give you the notes you need to go about it.

See [install/MILTER_README.md](https://github.com/m3047/trualias/blob/master/install/MILTER_README.md) for
suggestions on configuring _Postfix_ in particular.

The following code pointers will take you to what you'd need to change to use some other source of identity:

* [CoroutineContext.verify_account()](https://github.com/m3047/trualias/blob/8c332475cd15cc09a9640462b667dafa95538634/python/milter_server.py#L151)
* [CoroutineContext.say_hello()](https://github.com/m3047/trualias/blob/8c332475cd15cc09a9640462b667dafa95538634/python/milter_server.py#L173)
* [CoroutineContext.handle_requests()](https://github.com/m3047/trualias/blob/8c332475cd15cc09a9640462b667dafa95538634/python/milter_server.py#L181)

No, this not intended to be the final solution; pull requests and feedback welcomed (did I mention I'm looking
for someone to be the milter champion?).

Commit message:

Nudge people to use tcp_virtual_server.

python/README.md, after:

# Copy `trualias.conf` and it should run.

Copy `tcp_table_server.conf.sample` to `tcp_table_server.conf` and you should be able to run `tcp_table_server.py`.

It will listen on `127.0.0.1:3047` by default, and you should be able to query it with [`postmap`](http://www.postfix.org/postmap.1.html):

```
# postmap -q "samissexy.34" tcp:127.0.0.1:3047
baz
```

It watches the configuration file and will reload it if it changes.

To actually call it from `main.cf` you will have to recompile `local(8)`, or consider using `tcp_virtual_server` with `virtual_alias_maps` (probably a better option). See the instructions in `../install/`.

### Hacking 101

This is a [plaintext protocol](http://www.postfix.org/tcp_table.5.html). Got `telnet`?

```
# telnet 127.0.0.1 3047
Trying 127.0.0.1...
Connected to 127.0.0.1.
Escape character is '^]'.
get greyisthenewbeige.411
200 baz
^]
telnet> quit
Connection closed.
```

### Statistics!

The TCP Map server supports statistics! These can be logged periodically as well as queried for.

Briefly:

* _e_ elapsed seconds
* _d_ queue depth
* _n_ number per second
* _min_ minimum per second
* _max_ maximum per second
* _1_ most recent one second
* _10_ most recent 10 seconds average
* _60_ most recent 60 seconds average

```
# telnet athena.m3047.net 3047
Trying 209.221.140.128...
Connected to athena.m3047.net.
Escape character is '^]'.
foo
400 unrecognized command
get foo
500 not found
get samissexy.34
200 baz
stats
210 bad: emin=0.0000 emax=0.0000 e1=0.0000 e10=0.0000 e60=0.0000 nmin=0 nmax=1 n1=0.0000 n10=0.0000 n60=0.0167
212 connections: emin=0.0000 emax=0.0627 e1=0.0000 e10=0.0000 e60=0.0010 dmin=0 dmax=1 d1=1.0000 d10=1.0000 d60=0.2167 nmin=0 nmax=1 n1=0.0000 n10=0.0000 n60=0.0333
212 not_found: emin=0.0000 emax=0.0001 e1=0.0000 e10=0.0000 e60=0.0000 nmin=0 nmax=1 n1=0.0000 n10=0.1000 n60=0.0167
212 reads: emin=0.0000 emax=5.4090 e1=0.0000 e10=0.8751 e60=0.1834 dmin=0 dmax=1 d1=1.0000 d10=1.0000 d60=0.2167 nmin=0 nmax=2 n1=0.0000 n10=0.2000 n60=0.1000
212 stats: emin=0.0000 emax=0.0000 e1=0.0000 e10=0.0000 e60=0.0000 nmin=0 nmax=0 n1=0.0000 n10=0.0000 n60=0.0000
212 success: emin=0.0000 emax=0.0007 e1=0.0000 e10=0.0001 e60=0.0000 nmin=0 nmax=1 n1=0.0000 n10=0.1000 n60=0.0333
212 writes: emin=0.0000 emax=0.0001 e1=0.0000 e10=0.0000 e60=0.0000 dmin=0 dmax=0 d1=0.0000 d10=0.0000 d60=0.0000 nmin=0 nmax=1 n1=0.0000 n10=0.2000 n60=0.0667
jstats
212 [{"name": "connections", "elapsed": {"minimum": 0.0, "maximum": 0.06274080276489258, "one": 0.0, "ten": 0.0, "sixty": 0.0010456800460815429}, "depth": {"minimum": 0, "maximum": 1, "one": 1, "ten": 1.0, "sixty": 0.8333333333333334}, "n_per_sec": {"minimum": 0, "maximum": 1, "one": 0, "ten": 0.0, "sixty": 0.03333333333333333}}, {"name": "reads", "elapsed": {"minimum": 0.0, "maximum": 5.409029722213745, "one": 0.0, "ten": 0.0, "sixty": 0.21678426861763}, "depth": {"minimum": 0, "maximum": 1, "one": 1, "ten": 1.0, "sixty": 0.8333333333333334}, "n_per_sec": {"minimum": 0, "maximum": 2, "one": 0, "ten": 0.0, "sixty": 0.11666666666666667}}, {"name": "writes", "elapsed": {"minimum": 0.0, "maximum": 9.918212890625e-05, "one": 0.0, "ten": 0.0, "sixty": 7.673104604085286e-06}, "depth": {"minimum": 0, "maximum": 0, "one": 0, "ten": 0.0, "sixty": 0.0}, "n_per_sec": {"minimum": 0, "maximum": 1, "one": 0, "ten": 0.0, "sixty": 0.08333333333333333}}, {"name": "success", "elapsed": {"minimum": 0.0, "maximum": 0.0007426738739013672, "one": 0.0, "ten": 0.0, "sixty": 2.3651123046875e-05}, "n_per_sec": {"minimum": 0, "maximum": 1, "one": 0, "ten": 0.0, "sixty": 0.03333333333333333}}, {"name": "not_found", "elapsed": {"minimum": 0.0, "maximum": 0.00010251998901367188, "one": 0.0, "ten": 0.0, "sixty": 1.708666483561198e-06}, "n_per_sec": {"minimum": 0, "maximum": 1, "one": 0, "ten": 0.0, "sixty": 0.016666666666666666}}, {"name": "bad", "elapsed": {"minimum": 0.0, "maximum": 3.910064697265625e-05, "one": 0.0, "ten": 0.0, "sixty": 6.516774495442708e-07}, "n_per_sec": {"minimum": 0, "maximum": 1, "one": 0, "ten": 0.0, "sixty": 0.016666666666666666}}, {"name": "stats", "elapsed": {"minimum": 0.0, "maximum": 0.0016276836395263672, "one": 0.0, "ten": 0.0, "sixty": 2.7128060658772786e-05}, "n_per_sec": {"minimum": 0, "maximum": 1, "one": 0, "ten": 0.0, "sixty": 0.016666666666666666}}]
```

### Differences between `alias_map` and `virtual_alias_map` in Postfix

There are a couple of differences between these.

|   | `Delivered-To:` header | query string |
| - | -------------------- | ------------ |
| **alias_map** | alias address | account ("left-hand side") |
| **virtual_alias_map** | delivery address | full email address |

As a consequence, `tcp_table_server` expects just the account and returns an account, whereas `tcp_virtual_server` expects the
whole aliased email address and returns a whole email address. The `X-Original-To:` address always contains the alias address.

## Milters on the other hand...

If you're not already running milters this is probably not a good option for you. If you don't have your head
wrapped around local delivery accounts and not being an open relay or source of incorrectly addressed blowback,
it's probably not an option for you: if you rely on _Postfix_ `local_delivery_maps` to keep you out of trouble,
this is not for you, because they won't work with a milter which has as its sole purpose the rewriting of
recipients. The milter is written to use SMTP `VRFY` for local delivery validation, which is not an ideal
solution.

### When are milters a good option?

The milter implementation is a good option if either:

* You are using a _fast forwarding milter executor_ so that recipient edits are visible during the SMTP `RCPT` stage.

-- OR --

* You have a source of deliverable account truth. If you do, you are probably plugging _Postfix_ into it right now. So you'd have to write some code to query that source of truth from the milter. Hopefully not much, we tried to make it easy... `pydoc3 ./milter_server.py` should give you the notes you need to go about it.

See [install/MILTER_README.md](https://github.com/m3047/trualias/blob/master/install/MILTER_README.md) for
suggestions on configuring _Postfix_ in particular.

The following code pointers will take you to what you'd need to change to use some other source of identity:

* [CoroutineContext.verify_account()](https://github.com/m3047/trualias/blob/8c332475cd15cc09a9640462b667dafa95538634/python/milter_server.py#L151)
* [CoroutineContext.say_hello()](https://github.com/m3047/trualias/blob/8c332475cd15cc09a9640462b667dafa95538634/python/milter_server.py#L173)
* [CoroutineContext.handle_requests()](https://github.com/m3047/trualias/blob/8c332475cd15cc09a9640462b667dafa95538634/python/milter_server.py#L181)

No, this not intended to be the final solution; pull requests and feedback welcomed (did I mention I'm looking
for someone to be the milter champion?).
